
Setting Up and Running a FastAPI App from Your GitHub Repository
This guide will walk you through the process of setting up and running a FastAPI app from the coderphile/assignment GitHub repository. Ensure that you have the necessary prerequisites installed before proceeding.

Prerequisites:

Python (3.7+)
Git
Pip (Python Package Manager)
A terminal or command prompt


Step 1: Create a Virtual Environment (Optional but Recommended)

It's a good practice to create a virtual environment to isolate your project dependencies. To create a virtual environment, open your terminal and run the following command:

python -m venv myenv

Activate the virtual environment:

On Windows:
myenv\Scripts\activate

myenv\Scripts\activate
source myenv/bin/activate


Step 2: Clone the Repository

Clone the GitHub repository to your local machine using the following command:
git clone https://github.com/coderphile/assignment.git


Step 3: Navigate to the Project Directory

Change your working directory to the project folder:
cd assignment


Step 4: Install Dependencies

Install the required Python dependencies from requirements.txt:
pip install -r requirements.txt


Step 5: Set Up the Database

Ensure that you have a PostgreSQL database up and running. You will need to configure your database connection in the alembic.ini and app/config.py files.


Step 6: Run Migrations

Run the Alembic migrations to set up the database schema:
alembic upgrade head
This command applies the latest database schema defined in your project.


Step 7: Start the FastAPI Application

You can start the FastAPI application using uvicorn. The following command will start the app on host 0.0.0.0 and port 8080:
uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8080

Your FastAPI app should now be running and accessible at http://localhost:8080.

Step 8: Access the FastAPI Documentation

FastAPI provides an interactive documentation system. Open your web browser and go to http://localhost:8080/docs to access the automatically generated API documentation. You can test your API endpoints and explore their functionality from this interactive interface.

